# 2.x branch
## 2.20 branch
### 2.20.8
* removed useless method `IntegrationTestTrait::assertFlashMessage()`.

### 2.20.7
* added `TestCase::assertSqlEndsNotWith()` and `TestCase::assertSqlEndsWith()` methods.

### 2.20.6
* ready for `cakephp` 4.3.

### 2.20.5
* `CreateDirectoriesCommand`, `CreateVendorsLinksCommand` and `SetPermissionsCommand`
    now ignore duplicate values.

### 2.20.4
* fixed for `phpunit` 9.5.10;
* migration to github actions.

### 2.20.3
* fixed a serious bug in URL generation for `HtmlHelper::iframe()`,
    `HtmlHelper::image()` and `HtmlHelper::link()` methods, introduced since
    2.19.11 version.

### 2.20.2
* `ComponentTestCase`, `ConsoleIntegrationTestTrait` and `HelperTestCase` create
    real instances of the objects to be tested, and no more mock objects;
* `CreatePluginsLinksCommand` has been simplified;
* updated for php-tools 1.5.2;
* further improvement of function descriptions and tags.

### 2.20.1
* added `UploaderComponent::getFile()` and `UploaderComponent::setFile()` methods.
    `UploaderComponent::set()` method is deprecated, use instead `setFile()`;
* fixed little bug for the `ConsoleIntegrationTestTrait`;
* extensive improvement of function descriptions and tags. The level of `phpstan`
    has been raised.

### 2.20.0
* `MockTrait::getControllerAlias()` was deprecated and has been removed;
* updated for php-tools 1.5;
* ready for `php` 8.

## 2.19 branch
### 2.19.11
* fixed bug for `HtmlHelper::iframe()`, now the `$url` can be an array of parameters;
* fixed little bug for `HtmlHelper::image()` method with `$path` as array;
* fixed little bug for `HtmlHelper::link()` method with `$title` as array;
* updated for `php-tools` 1.4.7;
* extensive improvement of function descriptions and tags. The level of `phpstan`
    has been raised.

### 2.19.10
* `UploaderComponent::save()` method no longer throws an exception if the
    destination directory is not writable, but sets an error;
* fixed bug for `WRITABLE_DIRS` and `VENDOR_LINKS` configuration values. They no
    longer override the values set by other plugins.

### 2.19.9
* added `getAlias()`, `getPluginName()` and `getTableClassNameFromAlias()`
    methods for the `MockTrait`. Fixed `getOriginClassName()` and
    `getOriginClassNameOrFail()` methods;
* `MockTrait::getControllerAlias()` method is now deprecated. Use instead `getAlias()`.

### 2.19.8
* `addButtonClasses()` and `delete()` methods provided by `OptionsParser` take
    now a variable-length argument lists;
* updated for `php-tools` 1.4.6;
* ready for `phpunit` 10;
* added `phpstan`, so fixed some code.

### 2.19.7
* updated for `php-tools` 1.4.1.

### 2.19.6
* come back. Fixed little bug for `TestCase` class.

### 2.19.5
* updated for `cakephp` 4.1.
* fixed little bug for `TestCase` class.

### 2.19.4
* uses and suggests `npm-asset/fancyapps-fancybox` [github](https://github.com/fancyapps/fancybox)
    instead of `newerton/fancy-box`.

### 2.19.3
* the `UploaderComponent` can now handle files as `Laminas\Diactoros\UploadedFile`
    instance. This allowed to simplify the component;
* prevents the plugins bootstrap from loading multiple times;
* the `ckeditor` init file automatically integrates `elfinder` as long as
    [the `elfinder-cke.html` file exists](//github.com/Studio-42/elFinder/wiki/Integration-with-CKEditor-4);
* updated `Command` tests for `cakephp` 4.0.5.

### 2.19.2
* added `MockTrait::getOriginClassNameOrFail()` method;
* fixed little bug for `MockTrait::getOriginClassName()` method;
* changed `npm-asset/fortawesome--fontawesome-free` package with
    `fortawesome/font-awesome`.

### 2.19.1
* fixed I18n translations.

### 2.19.0
* updated for `cakephp` 4 and `phpunit` 8;
* the `BBCodeHelper` have been removed.

## 2.18 branch
### 2.18.16
* little code fixes;
* the `BBCodeHelper` was deprecated and was removed.
* APIs are now generated by `phpDocumentor` and no longer by` apigen`.

### 2.18.15
* fixed little bug for `MockTrait::getOriginClassName()` method.

### 2.18.14
* added `\MeTools\Utility\BBCode` utility. This utility allows you to parse
    BBCode also outside the view. The `BBCodeHelper` is now deprecated and will
    be removed in a future release.

### 2.18.13
* for classes automatically created during tests, the `initialize()` method for
    components, consoles and helpers is automatically called.

### 2.18.12
* added the `IconHelper`. `addIconToText()` and `icon()` methods have been moved
    from the `HtmlHelper`;
* `HtmlHelper::js()` alias method has been removed;
* javascript `send_form()` function becomes `sendForm()`.

### 2.18.11
* added `TestCase::getTable()` method;
* added tests for lower dependencies.

### 2.18.10
* fixed little bug for `LibraryHelper::ckeditor()`.

### 2.18.9
* added `IntegrationTestTrait::assertSessionEmpty()` method;
* uses the Symfony's `Filesystem` class;
* fixed bug for `TestCase::tearDown()` method;
* updated for `php-tools` 1.2.8.

### 2.18.8
* `button()`, `postButton()` and `postLink()` methods provided by `FormHelper`
    can be called with the first argument as `null`;
* `button()` and `link()` methods provided by `HtmlHelper` can be called with
    the first argument as `null`;
* fixed `CreatePluginsLinksCommand`, now it works without the `AssetsTask`;
* updated for `php-tools` `1.2.6`.

### 2.18.7
* `TestCase::tearDown()` method no longer empties temporary files. This should
    be done as appropriate;
* `UploaderComponent::getError()` method returns `null` with no errors;
* `Youtube::getId()` method returns `null` on failure;
* `Plugin::path()` takes only a string or `null` as first argument, and no more
    arrays. It always returns a string and if you ask for the path of a file
    that does not exist, it throws an exception;
* removed useless `HtmlHelper::div()` method.

### 2.18.6
* updated for `php-tools` 1.2.

### 2.18.5
* `MockTrait::getOriginClassName()` is now public and can take a string as arg;
* fixed a small bug in deleting logs during tests;
* fixed a small bug for the `MockTrait`.

### 2.18.4
* fixed bug for `ConsoleIntegrationTestTrait`;
* added [API](//mirko-pagliai.github.io/me-tools).

### 2.18.3
* updated for `php-tools` 1.1.12.

### 2.18.2
* fixed bug, the `Assets` bootstrap was not loaded automatically;
* fixed bug in the output of some errors in the console.

### 2.18.1
* improved the `MockTrait`.
* you can load test plugins writing the `pluginsToLoad` variable in Configure;
* little code and test fixes;
* updated for `php-tools` 1.1.9.

### 2.18.0
* `InstallShell` has been replaced with console commands. Every method of the
    previous class is now a `MeTools\Command\Install` class;
* `Shell` class has been removed, use instead the `Command` class;
* `MockTrait` moved from `MeTools\TestSuite\Traits` to `MeTools\TestSuite`.
    `assertIsMock()` and `getMockForShell()` methods no longer exist; added
    `getOriginClassName()`. `getMockForTable()` has been removed, use instead
    `getMockForModel()` provided by CakePHP;
* `ConsoleIntegrationTestCase` and `IntegrationTestCase` classes have been
    replaced with `ConsoleIntegrationTestTrait` and `IntegrationTestTrait, as
    for CakePHP 3.7;
* removed `TestCaseTrait`, methods have been moved to the `TestCase` class;
* `cakephp-assets`, `jquery`, `bootstrap`, `bootstrap-datetimepicker`, `fancy-box`
    and `fortawesome--fontawesome-free` are no longer required packages
    (`cakephp-assets` is required for developing), but only suggested packages;
* removed `clearDir()` global function. Use instead `safe_unlink_recursive()`
    provided by `php-tools`;
* removed `ME_TOOLS` constants. It no longer uses also the `ASSETS` constant;
* updated for CakePHP 3.7.

## 2.17 branch
### 2.17.6
* added `Command` class. It can be used instead of the `Shell` class;
* added `ConsoleIntegrationTestCase::assertOutputNotEmpty()` method.

### 2.17.5
* added `MockTrait`, `ComponentTestCase` and `HelperTestCase` classes for test
    suite;
* the `ConsoleIntegrationTestCase` class automatically creates an instance of
    the shell class. Added `getShellMethods()` method;
* added `TestCaseTrait::assertIsMock()` assert method.

### 2.17.4
* fixed bug in the integration with CKeditor when uploading images (see
    [this issue](https://github.com/sunhater/kcfinder/issues/171)).

### 2.17.3
* updated for CakePHP 3.6.

### 2.17.2
* added `Shell::hasParam()` method.

### 2.17.1
* updated for cakephp-assets 1.3, php-tools 1.1 and Bootstrap 4.1;
* some fixes for Font Awesome icons.

### 2.17.0
* updated Font Awesome to 5.1. So the `InstallShell::copyFonts()` method has
    been removed and the `webroot/fonts` directory no longer exists;
* by default, buttons generated by helpers will have the `btn-light` class.

## 2.16 branch
### 2.16.10
* `UploaderComponent::error()` renamed as `getError()`;
* `Shell::folderChmod()` has a default value for the `$chmod` argument;
* added `OptionsParser::consume()` method;
* added `TestCaseTrait::getLogFullPath()` method. So now `assertLogContains()`
    and `deleteLog()` methods can take absolute paths and filenames with or
    without extension;
* fixed code and output for the `Shell` class;
* removed `TestCaseTrait::deleteAllLogs()` method;
* removed `folderIsWriteable()` global function. Use instead
    `is_writable_resursive()` provided by `php-tools`.

### 2.16.9
* updated for CakePHP 3.6 and cakephp-assets 1.2.

### 2.16.8
* removed `assertArrayKeysEqual()`, `assertFileExists()`, `assertFileNotExists()`,
    `assertInstanceOf()`, `assertIsArray()`, `assertIsObject()`,
    `assertIsString()`, `assertObjectPropertiesEqual()` methods from
    `\MeTools\TestSuite\Traits\TestCaseTrait` and the `Apache` utility.
    Now they are provided by the `mirko-pagliai/php-tools` package.

### 2.16.7
* full compability with Windows;
* now the `UploaderComponent::save()` method takes the `$filename` parameter
    instead of the `$basename` parameter;
* updated for jQuery 3.3;
* now it uses the `mirko-pagliai/php-tools` package. This also replaces
    `mirko-pagliai/reflection`.

### 2.16.6
* updated for Bootstrap 4.0.0.

### 2.16.5-RC3
* `UploaderComponent::save()` method now accepts the optional `basename` argument;
* updated for Bootstrap 4 beta 3.

### 2.16.4-RC2
* improved the `InstallShell` class;
* `InstallShell::all()`, if called with the `force` parameter, executes only
    the default methods;
* Css files and KCFinder files to be loaded into the CKEditor editor are
    automatically set;
* added some plugins for CKEditor and set some default values for the tables and iframes.

### 2.16.3-RC1
* added `optionsParser()` global function, that returns an instance of
    `OptionsParser`;
* the CKEditor can now show a style similar to that of the article preview.

### 2.16.2-beta
* `OptionsParserTrait` has been replaced with the `OptionsParser` class. The
    `HtmlHelper` class now provides `buildIconClasses()` and `addIconToText()`
    methods, while the `iconClass()` method has been deleted;
* `toAttribute()` global function has been removed. Use instead
    `OptionsParser::toString()` method;
* updated for Bootstrap 4 beta 2.

### 2.16.1-beta
* little fixes on css rules.

### 2.16.0-beta
* updated all the code for Bootstrap 4;
* added the `HiddenWidget`, to properly render a hidden field;
* improved forms templates generated by the `FormHelper`;
* added a custom `bootstrap-datetimepicker` js file for Bootstrap 4;
* moved `MeTools\Utility\OptionsParserTrait` to namespace
    `MeTools\View\OptionsParserTrait`;
* the `METOOLS` constant has become `ME_TOOLS`.

## 2.15 branch
### 2.15.1
* the fancybox no longer uses the "thumb" plugin to ensure greater compatibility
    with jQuery 3.x;
* added `toAttributes()` global function.

### 2.15.0
* `InstallShell::fixComposerJson()` now has the `path` option;
* added `ConsoleIntegrationTestCase` class. Console tests have been simplified;
* updated for CakePHP 3.5;
* removed `IntegrationTestCase::loadAllFixtures()` method. Use `loadFixtures()`
    with no arguments;
* removed `am()` global function.

## 2.14 branch
### 2.14.0
* added `IntegrationTestCase`, `TestCase` and `TestCaseTrait` classes. Removed
    `LoadAllFixturesTrait` and `LogsMethodsTrait` classes;
* significantly improved all tests.

## 2.13 branch
### 2.13.1
* added `LoadAllFixturesTrait` and `LogsMethodsTrait` trait for TestSuite;
* removed `MailHelper::obfuscate()` method;
* the MIT license has been applied.

### 2.13.0
* fixed bug for `isUrl()` detector;
* removed all reCAPTCHA classes and libraries. Use instead
    `crabstudio/Recaptcha` and `mirko-pagliai/cakephp-recaptcha-mailhide`
    plugins;
* removed `af()` global function.

## 2.12 branch
### 2.12.5
* updated for Assets 1.1.4;
* updated for CkEditor 4.7.

### 2.12.4
* fixed little bug on `UploaderComponent::set()` method;
* fixed bug on `UploaderComponent::mimetype()` method. A wrong error was set;
* removed `firstKey()` global function. Use instead
    `\Cake\Collection\CollectionInterface::first()` with `array_keys()`.

### 2.12.3
* by default, the `is('url')` detector removes the query string from the current
    url. You can pass `false` as second parameter to keep the query string.

### 2.12.2
* added `HtmlHelper::iconClass()` method;
* `Youtube::getId()` method takes short url with the duration (eg.
    `http://youtu.be/bL_CJKq9rIw?t=5s`);
* tests that require a network connection have been marked with the
    `requireNetwork` group.

### 2.12.1
* methods that have been deprecated with CakePHP 3.4 have been replaced.

### 2.12.0
* removed global `firstValue()`. Use instead `CollectionInterface::first()`;
* removed global `isLocalhost()`. Use instead the `is('localhost')` detector;
* removed global `getClientIp()`. Use instead `ServerRequest::clientIp()`;
* updated for CakePHP 3.4.

## 2.11 branch
### 2.11.4
* fixed a little bug for labels on inline forms.

### 2.11.3
* added `createPluginsLinks` subcommand to the `InstallShell`.

### 2.11.2
* fixed CKEditor init script to work with jQuery 3.x.

### 2.11.1
* `UploaderComponent` has been rewritten and improved;
* fixed `composer.json` with suggested packages;
* subcommand `installPackages` provided by `InstallShell` is no longer
    available. Instead, use suggested packages by Composer;
* some improvements for `Shell` and `InstallShell` classes;
* fixed little bugs for `InstallShell`;
* added tests for `UploaderComponent` and `RecaptchaComponent` classes.

### 2.11.0
* removed the `BreadcrumbHelper`. Instead, use the `BreadcrumbsHelper` that
    extends the new helper provided by CakePHP;
* html global functions are now `OptionsParserTrait`. This class also provides
    `addIconToText()` and `addTooltip()` methods;
* removed tokens (component, entity and table). Instead, use `cakephp-tokens`.

## 2.10 branch
### 2.10.5
* fixed bug for `FormHelper`. Templates are correctly reset when you call the
    `input()` method;
* updated configuration file for CKEditor 4.6.

### 2.10.4
* added `BBCodeHelper::image()` and `BBCodeHelper::url()`;
* fixed bug for loading the `Assets` plugin;
* fixed bug for `PaginatorHelper::next()`;
* little fixes for `Shell` class;
* added tests for `PaginatorHelper` class;
* added tests for `Shell` class;
* added some tests for `LibraryHelper` class.

### 2.10.3
* little fixes for Fancybox's titles.
* removed `MarkdownHelper`. Instead, you can use `gourmet/common-mark`.

### 2.10.2
* added `MailHelper` class with `obfuscate()` method;
* removed `RecaptchaHelper::mailLink()` method;
* updated for Assets 1.1.0;
* added tests for `RecaptchaHelper` class;
* added tests for `FlashComponent` class.

### 2.10.1
* fixed serious bug for `BBCodeHelper::remove()` method: now it doesn't remove
    all the HTML code, but only the BBCode code;
* added `getChildMethods()` global function;
* added support for tooltips alignment;
* fixed bug for tooltips with quotes or code;
* removed "bold" style for shells.

### 2.10.0
* `HtmlHelper` class has been improved. The `tip` option has been replaced
    with `help`. Checkboxes are displayed according to the browser;
* `DropdownHelper` class has been completely rewritten and now provides
    `menu()`, `start()` and `end()` methods;
* added tests for `DropdownHelper` class;
* added tests for `HtmlHelper` class.

## 2.9 branch
### 2.9.1
* fixed bug for icons of Bootstrap Datepicker;
* downgrade jQuery to 2.2.4.

### 2.9.0
* added `HtmlHelper::cssBlock()` method;
* `HtmlHelper::cssStart()` and `HtmlHelper::cssEnd()` methods have been
    completely rewritten and they no longer need you add the `<style>` tag;
* added `implodeRecursive()` global function;
* `FlashComponent` renders all `alert()`, `error()`, `notice()` and `success()`
    class using the `src/Template/Element/Flash/flash.ctp` template;
* global functions splitted into `config/functions/global.php` and
    `config/functions/html.php`;
* added `HtmlHelper::addTooltip()` method;
* added support for tooltips for some methods;
* added `BreadcrumbHelper::reset()` method;
* `Youtube::getPreview()` method can also accept url as argument;
* fixed several bug for `clearDir()`;
* fixed bug for `optionDefaults()` and `optionsValues()`;
* fixed many bugs for `BBCodeHelper`;
* fixed many small bugs for `HtmlHelper`;
* fixed bug for `BreadcrumbHelper::get()` method. Added `onlyStartText` option;
* fixed small bugs for global functions;
* added tests for global functions;
* added tests for request detectors;
* added tests for `BBCodeHelper` class;
* added tests for `BreadcrumbHelper` class;
* added tests for `HtmlHelper` class;
* added tests for `Plugin` class;
* added tests for `Youtube` class.

## 2.8 branch
### 2.8.0
* `MeTools\Network\Request` has been removed. All old methods are now
	request detectors (see `config/detectors.php`);
* method `MeTools\View\Helper::_addButtonClass()` is now global function
    `buttonClass()`;
* `fv()` is now `firstValue()` and `fk()` is now `firstKey()`;
* fixed code for CakePHP Code Sniffer;
* updated for CakePHP 3.3.

## 2.7 branch
### 2.7.2
* fixed bug for CkEditor.

### 2.7.1
* updated jQuery to 3.1 branch.

### 2.7.0
* `addDefault()` renamed as `optionDefaults()` and `addOptionValue()` renamed
	as `optionValues()`. These functions now accept values as array.

## 2.6 branch
### 2.6.7
* fixed bug for mail links of reCAPTCHA.

### 2.6.6
* added `Breadcrumb` helper.

### 2.6.5
* fixed Composer's packages.

### 2.6.4
* added `Youtube` utility class;
* fixed some code for Composer updates;
* fixed bug for `Plugin` class.

### 2.6.3
* added `Uploader` component.

### 2.6.2
* fixed serious bug for fancybox;
* datepicker uses the `AssetHelper`;
* removed the `Cache` class.

### 2.6.1
* fixed bug for form inputs;
* removed some useless methods.

### 2.6.0
* improved the `Plugin` class;
* removed bake templates;
* removed the `Xml` class;
* removed the `SecurityComponent` class.

## 2.5 branch
### 2.5.2
* fixed shell output style;
* removed useless methods.

### 2.5.1
* fixed little bugs.

### 2.5.0
* log reports request URL, referer URL and client ip, both for exceptions and
	errors;
* removed useless classes.

## 2.4 branch
### 2.4.0
* removed the code for assets. In its place, use the `Assets` plugin;
* removed the `Unix` utility. Added the `which` global function.

## 2.3 branch
### 2.3.0
* removed the code for thumbnails. In its place, use the `Thumbs` plugin;
* fixed bug on log parser.

## 2.2 branch
### 2.2.9
* fixed bug on some console methods for CakePHP 3.2.

### 2.2.8
* fixed bug for thumbnails for urls with query string;
* updated to CakePHP 3.2.

### 2.2.7
* rewritten the FileLog class. Added a log parser;
* `iframe()` and `youtube` methods from `HtmlHelper` now support `$ratio` to
	create responsive embed.

### 2.2.6
* fixed serious bug for CKEditor.

### 2.2.5
* support for some BBCode;
* support for Youtube videos;
* fixed bug for Shareaholic.

### 2.2.4
* added the ErrorHandler class. This allows to track the "request URL" also
	for errors and not only for exceptions;
* fixed bug with thumbs on remote files.

### 2.2.3
* improved the code for shells.

### 2.2.2
* the Install shield now copies configuration files;
* fixed a lot of strings and translations.

### 2.2.1
* fixed a serious bug.

### 2.2.0
* added the Asset helper. Removed the Layout helper and the Compress shell.
	Now assets are automatically generated when required;
* fixed little bugs.

## 2.1 branch
### 2.1.2
* fixed a bug with forms on Firefox.

### 2.1.1-RC3
* added the installer console.

### 2.1.0-RC2
* added support for Shareaholic;
* jQuery, Bootstrap, Bootstrap Date/Time Picker, Moment.js and Font Awesome
	are installed via Composer;
* improved the logs management;
* fixed little bugs.

## 2.0 branch
### 2.0.1-RC1
* fixed many little bugs;
* updated Bootstrap 3 Date/Time Picker to 4.17.37.

### 2.0.0-beta
* all the code has been completely rewritten for CakePHP 3.x. Several
	optimizations have been applied;
* for the actions of loading/adding files, error messages are more
	intelligible;
* added the `MeEmail` class to simplify sending emails;
* added the `MeRequest` class to handle HTTP requests;
* added the `ThumbHelper` to generate thumbnails;
* updated Moment.js to 2.10.6, Bootstrap 3 Date/Time Picker to 4.15.35, Font
	Awesome to 4.4.0, jQuery to 2.1.4, Bootstrap to 3.3.5 and Moment.js to
	2.10.3.

# 1.x branch
## 1.2 branch
### 1.2.2
* full support for reCAPTCHA. Rewritten the `RecaptchaComponent`;
* fixed bug for the Datepicker;
* updated Bootstrap to 3.3.4 version.
* updated Bootstrap 3 Date/Time Picker to 4.7.14;
* updated PHP Markdown to 1.5.0.

### 1.2.1
* full support for reCAPTCHA;
* the `Token` component and model have been entirely rewritten;
* fixed bug for the `analytics()` method.

### 1.2.0
* updated Font Awesome to 4.3.0 version;
* support for FancyBox;
* fixed a bug in errors views;
* added some methods to `Plugin` utility. The `System` utility has been
	divided into several utilities;
* added the changelog file.
